Jehovah is with you, you mighty warrior.
With those words, Jehovah's angel greeted faithful judge Gideon.
But his reply to those words might surprise you.
Would you open your Bibles?
Let's read together, Judges, chapter 6, verse 13.
That's Judges 6, verse 13.
At this, Gideon said to him,
pardon me, my Lord.
But if Jehovah is with us, why has all of this come upon us?
Where are all his wonderful acts that our fathers related to us saying,
did Jehovah not bring us up out of Egypt?
Now Jehovah has deserted us and given us into Midian's hand.
Well, is that how you would respond to an angel of Jehovah who is speaking to you?
Well, probably not, under normal circumstances.
But what about in 2020?
This has truly been an incredible year.
We have faced a pandemic, a pandemic that has robbed us of our dear loved ones,
a pandemic that has caused us to face isolation to be separated from our relatives and close friends
so that now an epidemic of anxiety has settled down across our earth.
At times, during this year, maybe you have felt like Gideon.
Maybe his words have been your words.
Well, what does that mean?
If you have said those things or felt those things, does it mean that you're lacking faith?
Does it mean that your love for Jehovah is disappearing?
Or that now you're sort of diminishing in your relationship with God?
Not at all.
Gideon was not the only faithful of servant of Jehovah who expressed similar thoughts.
Do you remember what Habakkuk said?
Let's open our Bibles.
Let's read together Habakkuk, chapter one, and verses two and three.
Habakkuk said,
But you do not hear.
How long must I ask for help from violence?
But you do not intervene.
Why do you make me witness wrongdoing?
And why do you tolerate oppression?
Why are destruction and violence before me?
And why do quarreling and conflict abound?
Why, why, why?
Well, maybe those words sound a little bit familiar to you.
But brothers, when we feel overwhelmed by our circumstances, by our grief,
by our anxiety, there is a question that we need to ask.
Now, this is a question that was first recorded in the Bible
from the faithful prophet Elisha.
Now, would you read it with me?
It's in 2nd Kings, chapter two,
and verse 14.
2nd Kings 2,
It says, then he, now this is Elisha, then he
took the official garment of Elijah that had fallen off him
and struck the waters and said,
Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah?
When he struck the waters, they were divided to the left and to the right
so that Elisha went across.
What is the question?
Where is Jehovah?
Now, what did Elisha mean when he asked that question?
Was he saying, where is Jehovah?
Why isn't he doing something?
Is that the sense of the question?
Not at all.
Elisha was looking for Jehovah.
He was searching for his direction.
He wanted to see the hand of God.
Well, Elisha got the answer to his prayer.
Those waters opened right in front of him so that he could cross.
Well, this is not the only place where this question appears in the Bible.
Let's look at another place.
Here in Jeremiah, chapter 2.
Jeremiah, chapter 2, and verse 5.
This is what Jehovah says.
What fault did your forefathers find in me so that they strayed so far for me
and they walked after worthless idols and became worthless themselves?
They did not ask, now notice,
they did not ask, where is Jehovah?
The one who brought us out of the land of Egypt,
who led us through the wilderness,
through a land of deserts and pits,
through a land of drought and of deep shadow,
through a land where no man travels,
and where no man humans dwell.
What's the point?
Jehovah wanted his people to search for him.
But he wanted them to ask, where is Jehovah to look for his hand to seek his help and direction?
When our brothers why is it so urgent for us during these critical times,
during a pandemic, to be saying, where is Jehovah?
Because we so desperately need the help, the direction, the support, the comfort that come
from our amazing, our wonderful God, Jehovah.
But now you might say, well, is Jehovah really going to help me?
You? Is Jehovah really going to help me?
I'm not important. I'm not significant.
Is Jehovah really going to be there for me?
Well, look at these beautiful words in the scripture in Isaiah chapter 57.
Isaiah chapter 57, which is really a promise from our God, Jehovah.
Isaiah 57 verse 15 says,
for this is what the high and lofty one says, who lives forever and whose name is holy.
I reside in the high and holy place, but now notice this.
But also with those crushed and lowly in spirit to revive the spirit of the lowly
and to revive the heart of those being crushed.
What an amazing thought.
Here are our God, Jehovah, the Almighty, who dwells in the highest heavens,
says that when we are crushed, when we are lowly, in a figurative sense, he resides right with us.
How beautiful, how amazing.
Well, now what does that mean? What does that teach us?
It teaches us we need to ask that question, where is Jehovah every day?
We need to beg Jehovah for his direction. We need to beg him for his help.
But then we need to do something more.
We need to be on the lookout for the hand of Jehovah.
When Elijah felt completely isolated, when he was so discouraged, do you remember?
He said, I'm the only one left. He just poured his heart out to Jehovah.
And what did Jehovah do for him? Well, you'll remember, Jehovah allowed Elijah to see a miraculous
display of his power. Remember, he saw he felt that wind. He felt the earthquake. He felt the fire.
But you know, the Bible says, Jehovah was not in the wind.
Jehovah was not in the earthquake. Jehovah was not in the fire.
But then what came next? A calm, low voice. That was Jehovah.
Well, now what do we learn from that experience?
Sometimes brothers, we might be waiting for some big, bold, dramatic expression of Jehovah's hand.
But in reality, what do we need to do? We need to turn up our spiritual hearing aids
so that we can hear the calm, low voice of Jehovah. You see, Jehovah's answer to our prayers
might come in a way that we don't expect. Maybe it's through the kind gesture or act
of one of our brothers or sisters. Maybe it's through a text message, an email,
a phone call, or some other way that our brother or sister acts to show their kindness.
Maybe that's Jehovah's way of giving us the help that we need. That means that when we are
earnestly praying, when we're earnestly seeking Jehovah's help, be attentive, be alert,
ask where is Jehovah and look for his hand. But now here's another question, brothers.
When that help comes, when Jehovah does provide that assistance that you need,
will you be willing to accept it? When Mary came to Jesus with the perfumed oil,
genuine art. Remember so expensive that it would cost a year's wages for an average laborer.
It would have been so easy for Jesus to turn her away. Just say, oh no, Mary, thank you very
much, but I don't need you. A Jehovah's going to help me so you can just go now and I'll be fine.
Jesus didn't do that. Jesus willingly accepted the help. Now maybe, maybe Jesus understood that
Jehovah had put it into Mary's heart to do this so that his body would be properly prepared for burial.
We don't know, but the point is Jesus accepted the help that Mary provided. Well, brothers and sisters,
what's the lesson? What do we need to learn from this? If you're a person who always says, oh no,
we're fine. We don't need anything. Jehovah's going to help us or oh no, you don't need to tell me
that. I already know Jehovah will give me the direction I need. Well, then we may be missing out.
We may not be seeing or hearing the help that Jehovah wants to give us. Let's watch a video
and see how our brothers and sisters in distress have experienced the help of Jehovah at a critical
time. I thought that fire was loud. I thought that you could hear a wildfire and it was just
dead quiet. By the time we went down the driveway and around the corner, we stopped and looked back
and back of my parents' houses on fire. When the pandemic hit, we lost our work. We couldn't go to
work and we also couldn't leave our apartment. The situation was very hard. My husband Yvonne was
charged with organizing extremist activity. He was put into pretrial detention for four months.
I found out that I had a tomb in my chest and I would have to have a very serious operation.
I lost my mom to the coronavirus. Living 3,000 miles apart, there would be a long time before I would
be able to go home at all and I wasn't able to be there when it happened. Earlier this year,
my son Nathan died in a tragic accident. He was two years old.
At that time, I asked Jehovah the question, why is this happening to me?
There was friends there before we got there. Before we got to the place we knew we were going
to evacuate because they asked where it going to be. Willing just provide anything that we needed
before we even knew what it was that we needed and especially spiritually. Even when I didn't know,
we need to say a prayer. It was there. In those moments, we saw Jehovah's Hand.
Brothers would come by and give us food. There was even a brother that called me when things started
to go bad and said, I think you're going to need some money. And without saying anything, he came
and left an envelope outside our apartment. When we opened the envelope, we saw that there was
exactly the amount we needed to pay the bills and to buy things that we needed for the apartment.
I have only learned about brotherly love, but during that time, I really understood what it truly
means. During that time, brothers who we did not even know called us. They spent time with us.
They prayed with us. They spent a lot of their time encouraging us. During that time,
I saw evidence of Jehovah's Hand in our lives. I was really, really struggling one day and I had
to chat to Jehovah in prayer. I was trying to throw all my burdens on him and not two minutes after
I finished that prayer, is when an elder reached out to me and gave me the best shepherd in call.
I think I've ever had in my life. And clearly, that was Jehovah reaching out to me and trying to
show me that he understood how I felt and was there for me. After intensive care, I felt that I
needed someone to hold my hand. So I understood that Jehovah would take me by the hand.
A sister visited me every day. Help me get dressed. She brushed my hair and we went for short walks
along the corridor. Now I can really see how compassionate and considerate Jehovah's that he
knows how to support us. He knows us inside and out. While we were going through this difficult time,
Jehovah helped us so much and we definitely saw his hand in our lives. And in the future,
if any difficulty should occur, we are confident that Jehovah will help us and protect us.
It doesn't matter what we face, it'll get worse and worse in this system. But we know that
Jehovah can get us through absolutely anything. I've seen the overwhelming evidence in my own life.
I've seen it for others too. And whatever Satan throws at us, it doesn't matter because
Jehovah is stronger. He's the most powerful ally that we can have. At this annual meeting,
we have heard so much about what the governing body under the direction of Jehovah God and Christ
Jesus are doing to strengthen Jehovah's people worldwide. But brothers and sisters,
do you know one thing that is strengthening the governing body to continue on in our work?
It's you. It's every one of you brothers and sisters out in the field.
We know what you're going through. We read your cards and letters. We hear your expressions.
We know you're suffering through a difficult time. And yet you keep going. You keep enduring.
You keep serving Jehovah faithfully. That not only warms our hearts, but it strengthens our own
faith to continue serving Jehovah. We are facing a challenging time now. And as we face the great
tribulation, we will face even greater challenges. We may have times of discouragement,
just like Gideon had, just like Habakkuk had, just as Elijah had. But we will also prove faithful
to the end, just as each of those men did if we do what? If we keep looking for Jehovah,
if we keep searching for his hand, if we keep turning up our spiritual hearing aids so that we can
be attentive to the ways that Jehovah will use to help us and to strengthen us and direct us.
Yes, dear brothers and sisters, keep on asking, where is Jehovah?